Okay, so let's have a look
at the different permissions for Lambda.
So if you go into the IAM console,
remember that every single Lambda function
must have an IAM role.
And so if I go into my roles
and just look for Lambda in here,
we can see we have a lot of Lambda roles
right here available to us.
So there is the demo Lambda role, the Lambda ALB,
the Lambda S3, and we have the SQS and so on.
So if we look at, for example, the demo Lambda role,
which was the first role we created,
there was a Lambda basic execution role attached to it.
So this gets attached pretty much to every Lambda role
that you create through the console.
And if you look at the policy of that role itself,
we can see that it allows you to create log groups
and then send log events into your CloudWatch logs.
So the idea right here is really
to have this Lambda function being able to send logs
into CloudWatch logs,
and this is why it's called BasicExecutionRole, okay?
The next thing we've seen is around resource policies.
So for example, you can open your Lambda S3,
Lambda EventBridge, and Lambda SQS.
So I can show you how this works.
So if we look at Lambda S3, and you scroll up,
we see that S3 is logging our Lambda function.
So we have a trigger from our S3 bucket,
and if you go under Configuration
and then Permissions and scroll down,
we can see that there is a resource-based policy statement
on our Lambda function.
We can click on View policy,
and by click on View policy,
we have this entire statement,
which is showing that we allow the Amazon S3 service
to invoke our Lambda function,
a condition that we are invoking this Lambda function,
and that the source account is this
and that the source ARN, so the ARN of our S3 bucket,
that is invoking Lambda function is this one.
So this is the magic that allows Amazon S3 buckets
to invoke our Lambda function.
If we look at the EventBridge one,
so EventBridge is invoking our Lambda function again.
So we need to have a look again
at the resource-based policy statement.
We click on View policy,
and here we see that we allow events.amazonaws.com,
which is EventBridge,
to invoke our Lambda function.
Again, being that the source ARN
must be this rule right here on EventBridge.
And if we look at Lambda SQS now,
and under Configuration,
we scroll down,
and we see that
there is no resource-based policy statements.
So something is different here
because SQS is not invoking our Lambda function.
Instead, our Lambda function is going to query
in SQS to see if there is data within.
And so therefore,
what we're looking at here instead is the execution role.
So this is my execution role
of my Lambda function right here.
And if we look at it,
we can see that we have the AWS SQS Lambda execution role,
which allows our Lambda function
to receive, delete, and get messages.
If we look at Lambda SQS, here, you can also see it
by clicking on this dropdown and clicking on Amazon SQS.
And we see that yes, we can receive, delete,
and get queue attributes.
And so this is very important
because in the SQS case,
then Lambda is not invoked by SQS,
but instead Lambda is getting the data out of SQS.
So it's important for you to know.
All right, that's it for this lecture.
I hope that makes sense
for resource policies versus execution roles.
I hope you liked it,
and I will see you in the next lecture.